So looking at two tools here.
One is W get, and one is curl.
Now both of them are used to connect to the Internet
or connect over HTTP and grab URLs,
but they are used for different things.
And you might find that one's installed on your machine,
and one isn't.
I can never remember which is the most common.
I think it's curl, and certainly,
from my perspective, I use curl a lot more
than I use W get.
Now W get is really handy for grabbing single web pages.
So here I've got W get, remysharp.com.
I don't even need the protocol.
And it will go off to my blog
and just grab the page it finds on the other end
and save it to disc.
So you can see now, I have index.html,
and if I opened that up
in a browser you would see that that is my blog.
My index page of my blog, and it saved it with no trouble.
And the same thing with kind of redirects as well,
to have a magic redirect, where it takes the short part
of a blog post and then matches it
to the closest match of W get node.
It redirects correctly and finds the right file
and saves it.
So we can see up here, we might see kind of a, yeah,
following, here we go.
So it's following the redirect for us.
It's really good for grabbing single files.
Maybe that's perfect for what you want.
And if you need to instal it,
you'll need to do a per instal, possibly,
I can't remember.
But also it's very good for spidering websites.
So if you've got a website you want to take a copy of,
W get is really good for spidering.
So, I'll show you that.
Bear in mind I Googled the syntax for this.
I wouldn't expect you to memorise it.
So here we're saying to follow the links,
link -L4, for is four links deep, as it spiders,
go ahead and use spider argument.
D means the the domain's to stay within
when it's following and spidering off,
so don't go on to Google or anything like that,
just stay within that domain,
and that can be multiple domains.
They kick that off.
You just saw it grabbing the URLs
as quickly as it possibly can.
I'm just gonna kill that early, and if we see,
I've got this new directory called remysharp.com.
And if I just do a quick find, oops, find,
you can see here's all the files it managed to grab.
It didn't get very far because I killed it early,
but you can see it's gone all the way back,
it's grabbed all the HTML files,
and if you leave that running,
it would do a complete spider.
So, that's what W get is good for.
Like I said, I use a curl a lot.
Curl is similar to W get, but it's a little bit stricter.
So I've had to put protocol in here
when I'm curling remysharp.com.
And when I run it, the output actually gets put
onto the terminal.
So if we wanted to save that into a file,
I would do index.html, and that would be the way I save it.
But, because it gets printed as standard out,
so that the terminal, I can actually pipe it into something.
So I can, I have a little command called scrape,
and I can scrape all the P tags.
So that gives me all the P tags that are
in that index page.
And because it can be piped, it can be piped
to other tools like grep.
I can grep for the H-1.
Oops, and I can see, there's a lot of H-1s.
Nope, that's a, I don't know what that is,
anyway, I can grep for the H-1s,
or grep for whatever I'm looking for in the HTML,
and it will give me that part.
Whereas the W get will get will give me the file,
so I have to go looking for it.
Also, with curl, you have a lot more control,
lot more fine grain control.
So when I did curl remysharp.com/node,
this doesn't do anything, and the reason,
it does do something, but it's printing
what the server gave back to me,
and what the server gave back to me was no content,
just headers.
So if I want to look at the headers,
I can do -I.
And here, I can see actually, the server responded
with a 301 and a location redirect.
And because I only told curl to grab that URL,
the output, the body of that request is empty.
But I can tell it to follow a redirect.
So I can do -L, and it will follow the redirect correctly
and get me the index page.
And if I just want to look at the headers for that,
I can do -I, and you can see it following all
of those redirects.
So the first one is to move it to HTTPS,
the second one is to say I've found the actual blog post,
and this last one's saying not found,
the reason it says "not found" is
because I've used -I, and what -I says
is do a head request.
So there's different types of requests.
You've got HEAD, we have GET, we have POST, DELETE,
PUT and so on.
HEAD says to only get the headers.
I need to say get me everything.
So I need to do a GET request.
And that would do the 200 OK,
and if I didn't have the capital I, I would see the body.
If I wanted headers and the body, I can do small I,
and give me the headers and the body,
so I scroll back past all this gunk,
and should see here, yep there we go,
so we've got headers, and then we have the actual body
that follows.
Really good for kind of diagnosing things like
making sure cookies there,
making sure the redirects are happening,
making sure that you can see cloudflare is there,
I think there should be some cache,
it should say whether it was hit or miss.
There's something in there.
And then there's a few other things,
like I said, I can do curl -X POST,
so I can post data up to and endpoint,
so I can do, I'm gonna do jsonbin,
but it's gonna give me a fail.
I'm gonna do data is, let's say, an empty array,
/me/test, and that should give me 401, yeah,
it's trying to redirect that's telling me I'm not allowed.
So I can look at the headers on that, as well, -I,
so I can do some debugging on the command line.
401 unauthorize, while it trying to redirect me.
I can post real data info if I was preauthorize
I could send extra headers, so I do -H, authorization,
token, I think I've got environment,
Jsonbin TOKEN, nope need to do that in double quotes,
and we should see if that works.
So we've got 201 and that said it was created.
So it managed to make this thing for me.
I can do PUTs, DELETEs, and so on.
And something that's also really useful to me
is in DEV tools, if you look at the network panel,
and you actually have the network request,
if you right-click on the individual network requests,
you can copy them as curl.
So you can copy all as curl, every single request.
You can copy that single one as a curl.
So I just got this Time To First Byte Wikipedia page.
I'm going to do copy as curl,
go back to my terminal, and just paste.
And there you can see the full curl command.
I'm just gonna do -I, so I just look up headers.
And these are the headers coming back
from the Wikipedia page.
And it was called exactly the same way my browser called.
So if I had any cookies, verisign in,
all of that would go to the curl request.
And it would get a, it would replicate
the entire request properly.
So again, really good for debugging.
And there's one last thing.
I have this alias perf.
Perf is aliased to curl, and this command.
So when I do perf, it runs that command,
and then I put in my URL like this.
And what it would do is give me the performance metrics
of the request for this URL, okay?
So here it tells me it took a total
of 200 and, sorry, 280 milliseconds,
the appconnect, I think, is the time to first byte
or pretransfer, one of these two is the time to first byte,
and that's the interesting part.
That's the part that says the DNS was resolved
and the server is starting to send data back down
over the wire.
The way this works is firstly, I have this -O,
this says don't print any output.
O says "take the output and send it to this,"
and dev/null means basic complete suppress.
S gets rid of the kind of progress that it might show,
and -W is the thing that says
to print the performance stats.
Now I have this file in my home directory,
so if I cat that out,
which uses special variables that curl understands
and it will print out in this format for me.
And the at symbol says read, read it from this file.
So yeah, really useful.
There's loads that you can learn about curl and W get,
but I want to show you the two are linked
to examples in this video, as well.
But, like I said, my preference is curl
for, kind of, that fine grain control.
But W get is really useful for spidering entire websites.